Hello, and welcome back.
In this week we're going to go over
the basics of neural network programming.
It turns out that when you
implement a neural network there
are some techniques that
are going to be really important.
For example, if you have a training
set of m training examples,
you might be used to processing
the training set by having a four loop
step through your m training examples.
But it turns out that when you're
implementing a neural network,
you usually want to process
your entire training set
without using an explicit four loop to
loop over your entire training set.
So, you'll see how to do that
in this week's materials.
Another idea, when you organize
the computation of, in your network,
usually you have what's called a forward
pause or forward propagation step,
followed by a backward pause or
what's called a backward propagation step.
And so in this week's materials,
you also get an introduction about why
the computations, in learning an neural
network can be organized in this for
propagation and
a separate backward propagation.
For this week's materials I want
to convey these ideas using
logistic regression in order to make
the ideas easier to understand.
But even if you've seen logistic
regression before, I think that there'll
be some new and interesting ideas for
you to pick up in this week's materials.
So with that, let's get started.
Logistic regression is an algorithm for
binary classification.
So let's start by setting up the problem.
Here's an example of a binary
classification problem.
You might have an input of an image,
like that, and
want to output a label to recognize
this image as either being a cat,
in which case you output 1, or
not-cat in which case you output 0,
and we're going to use y
to denote the output label.
Let's look at how an image is
represented in a computer.
To store an image your computer
stores three separate matrices
corresponding to the red, green, and
blue color channels of this image.
So if your input image is
64 pixels by 64 pixels,
then you would have 3 64 by 64 matrices
corresponding to the red, green and blue
pixel intensity values for your images.
Although to make this little slide I
drew these as much smaller matrices, so
these are actually 5 by 4
matrices rather than 64 by 64.
So to turn these pixel intensity values-
Into a feature vector, what we're
going to do is unroll all of these pixel
values into an input feature vector x.
So to unroll all these pixel intensity
values into Feature vector, what we're
going to do is define a feature vector x
corresponding to this image as follows.
We're just going to take all
the pixel values 255, 231, and so on.
255, 231, and so
on until we've listed all the red pixels.
And then eventually 255 134 255,
134 and so
on until we get a long feature
vector listing out all the red,
green and
blue pixel intensity values of this image.
If this image is a 64 by 64 image,
the total dimension
of this vector x will be 64
by 64 by 3 because that's
the total numbers we have
in all of these matrixes.
Which in this case,
turns out to be 12,288,
that's what you get if you
multiply all those numbers.
And so we're going to use nx=12288
to represent the dimension
of the input features x.
And sometimes for brevity,
I will also just use lowercase n
to represent the dimension of
this input feature vector.
So in binary classification, our goal
is to learn a classifier that can input
an image represented by
this feature vector x.
And predict whether
the corresponding label y is 1 or 0,
that is, whether this is a cat image or
a non-cat image.
Let's now lay out some of
the notation that we'll
use throughout the rest of this course.
A single training example
is represented by a pair,
(x,y) where x is an x-dimensional feature
vector and y, the label, is either 0 or 1.
Your training sets will comprise
lower-case m training examples.
And so your training sets will be
written (x1, y1) which is the input and
output for your first training
example (x(2), y(2)) for
the second training example up to <xm,
ym) which is your last training example.
And then that altogether is
your entire training set.
So I'm going to use lowercase m to
denote the number of training samples.
And sometimes to emphasize that this
is the number of train examples,
I might write this as M = M train.
And when we talk about a test set,
we might sometimes use m subscript test
to denote the number of test examples.
So that's the number of test examples.
Finally, to output all of the training
examples into a more compact notation,
we're going to define a matrix, capital X.
As defined by taking you
training set inputs x1, x2 and
so on and stacking them in columns.
So we take X1 and
put that as a first column of this matrix,
X2, put that as a second column and
so on down to Xm,
then this is the matrix capital X.
So this matrix X will have M columns,
where M is the number of train
examples and the number of railroads,
or the height of this matrix is NX.
Notice that in other causes,
you might see the matrix capital
X defined by stacking up the train
examples in rows like so,
X1 transpose down to Xm transpose.
It turns out that when you're
implementing neural networks using
this convention I have on the left,
will make the implementation much easier.
So just to recap,
x is a nx by m dimensional matrix, and
when you implement this in Python,
you see that x.shape,
that's the python command for
finding the shape of the matrix,
that this an nx, m.
That just means it is an nx
by m dimensional matrix.
So that's how you group the training
examples, input x into matrix.
How about the output labels Y?
It turns out that to make your
implementation of a neural network easier,
it would be convenient to
also stack Y In columns.
So we're going to define capital
Y to be equal to Y 1, Y 2,
up to Y m like so.
So Y here will be a 1 by
m dimensional matrix.
And again, to use the notation
without the shape of Y will be 1, m.
Which just means this is a 1 by m matrix.
And as you influence your new network,
mtrain discourse, you find that a useful
convention would be to take the data
associated with different training
examples, and by data I mean either x or
y, or other quantities you see later.
But to take the stuff or
the data associated with
different training examples and
to stack them in different columns,
like we've done here for both x and y.
So, that's a notation we we'll use e for
a regression and for
neural networks networks
later in this course.
If you ever forget what a piece of
notation means, like what is M or
what is N or
what is something else, we've also posted
on the course website a notation guide
that you can use to quickly look up what
any particular piece of notation means.
So with that, let's go on to the next
video where we'll start to fetch out
logistic regression using this notation.